GSOC 2024 Report - Pranay Das (#144)
aboutcode-org/aboutcode: docs/source/archive/gsoc/reports/2024/scancodeio_scorecode_pranay.rst

Overview
--------

The primary objective of this project was to fetch and integrate the OpenSSF Scorecard
data into the Scancode.io platform for all detected packages, thereby enhancing its
capabilities for security and community health metrics analysis. The project
involved work on two key repositories: `Scorecode`,which was developed as a PyPI
package, and `Scancode.io`, where the integration with Scorecard data was implemented
within scanning pipelines.

**Scorecode**

`scorecode package <https://pypi.org/project/scorecode/>`_ serves as a PyPI package
that has the functions to fetch and store OpenSSF Scorecard data using the OpenSSF
public API. It also includes Django mixin models that can be extended and integrated
into other platforms with databases, such as Scancode.io and PurlDB, ensuring seamless
utilization of Scorecard data across various projects.

**Scancode.io**

In the `Scancode.io` project, I added a pipeline that interacts with the `scorecode`
package to fetch and store Scorecard data in the Scancode.io database. The data can then
be exported into various outputs like the Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)

> CycloneDX format (and SPDX too in the future), providing comprehensive security

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CycloneDX format (and SPDX too in the future), providing insights into security and community health
```

   - Verified seamless integration and accurate data retrieval across different package
     ecosystems supported by Scancode.io, ensuring that the Scorecard data aligns with
     the expected structure and content.

   - Implemented and executed automated test cases using `pytest`, which include:

     - Validation of key fields such as ``scoring_tool``, ``scoring_tool_version``,
       ``score_date``, ``score``, ``scoring_tool_documentation_url``, and ``checks``.

     - Type checks for each field to ensure data integrity.

     - URL validation to confirm that the documentation links are correctly formatted
       and point to the expected resources.

   - Added additional test cases for edge scenarios such as non-existent repositories,
     private repositories, and invalid input formats to ensure robustness and
     reliability.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Linked Pull Requests
--------------------

.. list-table::
   :widths: 10 40 20 30
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Sr. no
     - Name
     - Link
     - Status
   * - 1
     - Scorecard Integration

>      - https://github.com/aboutcode-org/scancode.io/pull/1294

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - `aboutcode-org/scancode.io#1294 <https://github.com/aboutcode-org/scancode.io/pull/1294>`_
```
Can you make this similar to the table below

==================================================
Enrich SBOM data based on OSSF Security Score Card
==================================================

**Organization:** `AboutCode <https://aboutcode.org>`_

**Projects:**

> - `Scancode.io <https://github.com/aboutcode-org/scancode.io>`_

Reviewer: Insert a blank line here, same as mentors.

capabilities for security and community health metrics analysis. The project
involved work on two key repositories: `Scorecode`,which was developed as a PyPI
package, and `Scancode.io`, where the integration with Scorecard data was implemented
within scanning pipelines.

**Scorecode**

`scorecode package <https://pypi.org/project/scorecode/>`_ serves as a PyPI package
that has the functions to fetch and store OpenSSF Scorecard data using the OpenSSF
public API. It also includes Django mixin models that can be extended and integrated
into other platforms with databases, such as Scancode.io and PurlDB, ensuring seamless
utilization of Scorecard data across various projects.

**Scancode.io**

In the `Scancode.io` project, I added a pipeline that interacts with the `scorecode`
package to fetch and store Scorecard data in the Scancode.io database. The data can then
be exported into various outputs like the Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)
CycloneDX format (and SPDX too in the future), providing insights into security and
community health

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Implementation
--------------

**1. Scorecode Repository:**

>    - Developed a PyPI package to interact with the OpenSSF API and fetch Scorecard data

Reviewer: Can you add the APi link here?
